In the last lecture, we learned how you can trigger another job from one junkie job.
In this lecture, we are going to take it one step further and we are going to pass parameters from
the upstream job to the downstream job.
So on the left we have our upstream job named sample pipeline job two.
And on the right we have the downstream job named simply as downstream job, not very creative.
So what we want to pass is so as you submit these Jenkins jobs, you can see Jenkins assigns a sequential
number like number one, number two, number three, we simply want to pass this number to the downstream
job so that the downstream job can display it.
So this actually sets the foundation for our real world projects.
Let's say you generate a new Docker container image and you want the tag for that image to be unique.
So every time the Jenkins job that creates the container image can use the build number as the tag,
and then you can pass that tag to the downstream job.
And the downstream job can use that to either push the image or change the manifest file appropriately
using that Docker tag.
But anyway, that that to come in the future lecture for now, let's learn how you can actually pass
a parameter from job to job.
So we are actually going to change the downstream job first.
So I'm going to maximize the downstream job and we have to define a parameter.
So if I go to configure and under the general section, you should see this, this project is parameterized,
so select that and then click add parameter and you have option to select the type of parameter.
In our case, we are going to do string parameter and the parameter name.
I'm simply going to put as build number a default value.
I'll keep it as best description.
I'm not going to do anything.
If we scroll down to the pipeline script, so we simply want to display whatever value we got on the
parameter.
So in this case, we have to run Echo and we have to put this dollar.
So this dollar means that you are going to use a parameter.
So then you have to use this calibrates and the parameter, build number.
Just grab whatever value you got in the input parameter and then you are displaying it.
One thing to note, you do have to use this double code.
If you don't use the double code, it is going to fail.
Okay, so let's save this downstream job.
So now let's go back to the upstream job.
All right.
I am in the upstream job, which is the job that is triggering the downstream job.
So scroll down.
At this point, we just had the build job, so I'm going to delete this because now we have to pass
the building number.
So delete this and click pipeline syntax.
Click this again and then select, build, build a job.
So the name of the job will be same downstream job, not quite prepared.
And then Jenkins automatically detects that, hey, the downstream job has an input parameter build
number.
What value you want to pass?
So this part is a little tricky.
You have to remember this part.
Jenkins has some standard variables already defined.
So every time we submit Jenkins, you see the serial numbers.
These numbers is saved in a standard variable named build underscore number.
So if I go back to the pipeline syntax, so the actual standard variable is EMV env for environment.
So this is what it means that you don't have to define whether it's a string number.
Whatever env determines that whatever you're going to put should be a standard variable that's already
defined in Jenkins internal system.
And the name of the variable is build underscore number.
Click Generate Pipeline Script.
There is also another change that you need to do and I'm going to show you.
So let's copy this.
Go back to the job and then paste it here.
Okay, now you have to delete this single code.
So whatever you put inside a single code, it automatically becomes a string.
So if I just kept this single code, it would literally send env to build underscore number.
It's not going to send the actual value, it's going to send the string, which we don't want.
So this is the tricky part.
The pipeline syntax doesn't do this part.
I wish it did.
But anyway, if are watching the lecture now, you know, so let's save this.
Okay.
Before we submit the job, let me open up this job and the downstream job side by side and ignore the
previous execution.
I did test before recording the video because I don't want the job to fail when I'm recording.
All right.
So the left is our sample pipeline job to right is downstream job.
Let's click build now.
All right.
Number six is submitted.
It's triggering the downstream job.
Okay.
The downstream job is running.
All right.
The downstream job also completed successfully.
So let's go and check out the logs for the downstream job.
All right.
So this is displaying six because the build number from the upstream job is six.
And again, this is just an example.
You can take this number and you can use it anywhere you want.
And this is one parameter.
You can have as many parameters as you want.
And as we go through the real world projects, you will see different kinds of parameters being used.
So let's say if I submit this again, will now.
So now the number seven got submitted.
So now the output of this downstream job should give number seven.
All right, this is done.
And this time I'm going to go to the console output.
Don't get confused by this number six.
Right, because this number six is the build number for the downstream job.
We want to display the build number of the upstream job, which is on the left.
So go to console output.
Scroll down.
All right.
Number seven.
All right, folks, this is how you trigger a downstream junkie's job while passing a parameter.
All right, folks, that's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and gals in the next lecture.